all eyes are on the bricks more
specifically all eyes are on China
you've probably asked the question why
do I care about China a country on the
opposite end of the world this doesn't
affect me well in today's video I'm
going to explain exactly what's going on
with the bricks and what that means for
you doesn't matter where you are in the
world it is going to have an impact in
these next few months and few years in
fact in this video I will show you how
to play this properly as well but you
have to wait until the end we're going
to look at what's going on
geopolitically the heat is rising
there's no question about that I want to
look at what's going on with their
banking system and the problems the
trillions of dollars that are impacted
by all of this there's so much to cover
let's begin first things first the brick
Summit is going on right now and China
has an uphill battle that's what we'll
discuss here Putin and you know you look
look at this o overall what we were
seeing of course Putin not making it to
the summit due to the fact that the
international criminal court said well
we got an arrest warrant so he's staying
home he sent lavro his second in command
over to basically make sure that his
place is filled and so on they're having
these meetings everything's going to
come out in the next little while we
will see and I'll bring you those
updates but I wanted to show you some
other things all right mainland China
Air documentary sign
uh military preparation for Taiwan
attack and willingness to sacrifice I'm
going to go through several of these
okay Philippines accuses China of firing
water cannons and its ships in the South
China Sea a key us Ally wants to walk
back its atrocious Embrace of China and
what is this Italy is saying you know
that Belt Road initiative I think at
this time it's best we come back isn't
that interesting you know Italy was
going in they were saying we want part
of this we want more infrastructure we
want our country to be built why because
Italy right now is falling off the face
of the Earth the whole country is going
to look like the Coliseum if they keep
things the way they are the birth rate
is super low they're so indebted they
can't control anything inside and out
and they've got issues so this maybe
look like an opportunity to them but
they're going in reverse China has this
uphill battle to start convincing other
countries countries not just the
countries like the bricks Nations but
others to do more business and right now
that is a real challenge for China China
and Russia send Naval warships near
Alaska triggering triggering forceful us
response and this is connected with that
Russia and China sent large Naval Patrol
near Alaska and so this happens all the
time especially with Taiwan but think
about it they're basically saying oh
you're going to send your ships and your
PL ples outside of our area and the
South China Sea we're going to send them
to your area and so this is a back and
forth thing it's been going on for a
very long time but we're kind of seeing
an escalation here this is not a good
sign not not for peace that's for sure I
want to talk about the economy though
okay so we can see that really quickly I
just want to move through that fast to
show you what's happening geopolitically
as we see it heating up right well
there's a few things I need to tell you
number one that you got to expect the
debt that China has to not be repaid at
least the foreign debt that it has and
I'm not talking about the country but
I'm looking at the companies whether it
is Country Garden whether it is evergr
whether there's all these uh companies
that have come up in the news recently a
lot of that likely won't get paid back
and they're doing some things to you
know restructure that debt but I believe
that we should understand that part of
this debt not the whole thing but part
of that will not be paid back they've
already been through this they've been
defaulting so we'll see what happens uh
stimulus is going to be key to paper
over the problems that they have right
now and so if we see that stimulus it
will look positive and even though it's
papering over I get it but that's what
everybody investors and everybody want
to see we'll talk more about that in a
second how you should play and position
yourself in this way um yeah and
basically just saying that China is
losing some of its share when we look at
the US Imports now there's a new player
well not exactly new but certainly at
the top of the list can you think of who
it is who is the number one partner with
the United States today well let me show
you something us companies are buying
less from China as 10 uh relations
remain tense Chinese Imports down 24%
through May and Mexico is now the United
States top trading partner now clearly
they share a border and so it's real
easy you got the whole you know trade
agreements and things that make it also
easy you've got tariffs remember what
happened through uh a few years ago
where you had a lots of tariffs on the
products coming out of China that made
it more expensive you got the difficulty
of you know Logistics at the same time
so what did companies do they said I'm
going to go out here and I'm going to
try my best best to diversify my supply
chain and they've been doing that to
some degree and in this article they do
talk about it and you could see
companies such as HP Stanley Black &
Decker and Lego are among those that
have repositioned their supply lines for
aeric consumers uh either to avoid the
risk of being pinched between Ravel
superpowers or as a part of a longer
term strategy to produce Goods closer to
customers and that's important for sure
I just don't think necessarily that what
we're seeing like having it with Mexico
because the United States and Mexico
have their own problems but China
certainly a whole different world right
because they're constantly battling it
seems uh but each country always has
these tensions flying and a lot of that
is just politics and nonsense some of it
though is really uh something that
people are are feeling and they're
definitely uh voicing their opinions
China's exports fall the most in three
years as the global economy falters a
very important statistic you got to look
at the exports of course exports right
now who does that signal that's the
other countries not necessarily China
it's not like they don't have the
production of the means they want it
they're saying let's do business but the
countries are saying well we don't need
you know another 10 million Lululemon
pant okay just leave it leave it there
for now so that's what's going on and
you can see that some of these signals
are really key really important and um
part of that I just want to highlight
really quickly the Russia's uh economy
is Project projected to grow despite
Western sanctions so when you have these
two rival sides um you don't necessarily
have all of the ability to squash them
down and that's part of why China at
this time is trying to reach out with
the brick Summit with the bricks Nations
trying to expand and say let's do
business on our own we don't need the
United States as much as we did before
but it is clear it is obvious that the
US consumer is the one with the
insatable appetite the country that will
go into debt right up in top of their
you know way they they can't even
breathe they got so much debt and that's
what manufacturers love that's what
companies love they love those people
who are willing to take on more debt
than they ever should and the US is
certainly the biggest supporter of that
and so the point is if you're going to
sanction a country well it's going to be
more difficult if you know they're able
to actually seek additional partners and
do things on their own terms we'll see
what happens here we have it you could
see this particular company China's
ciic Securities plans to move dozens of
Bankers from its offshore platform in
Hong Kong to the mainland to cut costs
and meet beijing's call to bridge income
inequality in the financial sector I
just thought it was interesting that
even within like Hong Kong it's getting
too expensive let's bring our people to
the mainland and so obviously with the
costs being much cheaper there uh it is
a factor just something interesting like
whereas you have countries saying uh you
know or companies saying uh we're going
to pull our business out of mainland
China Hong Kong perhaps is you know
those companies doing business in Hong
Kong would say n coming back back come
back to the mainland so we'll see how
that goes here we have this other aspect
which we're talking about the loans
talking about the banks and this is this
is really big alarming home price
declines home prices have dropped
remarkably from Peaks private data shows
existing home price declines just look
at some of these that are you know over
20% over 20% from their Peak and uh they
probably shouldn't have been anywhere
near there in the first place but it
just shows us that a lot of these cities
that some of them are very big cities
and they have seen such price declines
you know it's not just the investors
that are hurting but it's the developers
that are hurting and of course there's
debt connected in with it very important
the debt China vows more loan support
for businesses to Spur economy more
private firms May benefit from credit
enhancement tool steps meant to be
pragmatic quick to take effect you got
to understand here they're trying to do
everything that they can right China
puts pressure on local governments in PR
growth push yeah they want to they want
to do as much as they can but are they
going to be able to actually stimulate
and that's what some are asking they're
saying are they going to be able to do
this I want to tell you what you need to
be looking at what you need to be paying
attention to and thinking about right
now until stimulus is presented and I'm
not talking about oh we dropped the
interest rate a little bit I'm talking
about fullblown stimulus until that
point well then it is too early to
invest you might be thinking I'm going
to get an Alibaba I'm going to get an 10
cent all these other ones these Tech
firms because if you look at what's
happening in the US those stocks have
gone to the moon but China's stocks have
not done so so you might say hey I can
get an opportunity here jump in that's
what a lot of investors would do when
the stimulus comes through that could be
the case but as of now the risk is
certainly higher in China doesn't mean
it can't go up but the risk is higher
divers diversify your sources okay so
when you're doing business of any kind
you want to be not 100% reliant on China
doesn't mean of course China going to do
business with the us but also at the
same time you want to be able to if
China's got a problem with the US well
maybe you're still buying from China but
you're also selling to Europe you're
also selling to South America you're
selling to other places so you want to
diversify that way as a business as an
investor as somebody who's you know
bringing in if you if your business or
operations or whatever you're relying on
right now you got to start thinking more
globally regardless we're going into
this multi-polar world doesn't matter if
it if China has 5% of that or 10% of
that you got to understand that that is
happening there's there's a big shift
going on and War could impact business
we got to be very clear about this I
think it's pretty obvious it doesn't
need to be a fullscale hot War but we
could have things on a different level
if you want to know more about this if
you want to be able to look at it on a
deeper level I've got information right
here in the Discord things all kinds of
things you want to know about real
estate like hey what should I be paying
attention to if I can to invest in real
estate well these things right here will
help you with that so when you go into
the Discord it's totally free link down
below you're going to be able to get
tips like this uh just talking about
look looking at your vacancies looking
at your permits all these different
things that are important that's in
there you're going to see it on the Le
hand side there's a whole bunch of stuff
check it out as well as I wanted to
highlight the comment of the day all
right check it out wrench for a hammer
thank you very much for your comment
today and by the way everybody who's
been commenting this is very important
and I and I want to highlight that as
much as I can I make
twice cash per hour as I did back in the
year 2000 he's referencing on a video
that I did but not enough to keep up
with inflation life was better then I
wish we could roll things back to the 9s
and could you say the same for the
1970s when one income would have been
more than sufficient when interest rates
were likely higher than they were right
now and still much more affordable crazy
that's the way we live today well I want
to thank you for that comment I want to
thank you for all that which you share
on here don't forget if you share with
somebody else you help me out give it
the thumbs up if you uh if you can this
really helps me out as well I'll see you
on the next one take care